>> Steve Kinney: If we go back
to the site that we had earlier,
this is our second little
notebook here on tokenization.
So we actually see this with real code.
So there's some of the words that I
said earlier and we can kind of get
a sense we can actually grab a bunch
of different models of hugging face.
And we just ask them like yo,
like what's your vocab size?
Right?
And So I grabbed Bert,
GPT2 and Roberta and
T5 and
I basically went through all of them and
I said how many tokens do you have?
Right?
And this auto tokenizer before
when we saw pipeline it was all
of the pieces of the chain, right?
The tokenizer, the,
the model weights everything.
In this case I'm just
grabbing the tokenizer.
So I'm using this auto tokenizer
which is just kind of also
getting whatever other accoutrements.
I'm not wiring everything
up myself by hand.
But it's not the full
pipeline in this case.
And you can see that it is going to
pull those down for me right now.
It's got my libraries,
we're pulling those in.
We'll have them momentarily as we spin
up our little disk, so on and so forth.
Here they come.
You can see it pulling down the vocab,
JSON, all the fun files and here we go.
It's almost like that slide
I showed you earlier.
I wrote code to figure it out.
So here you can see,
you can grab all of them.
They are different sizes.
What that means to you on a practical
day to day level is not much,
just the fact that models are different.
One tokenizer is not the same
as another tokenizer.
They are all usually at least
somewhat bespoke to that given model.
So we got those vocabularies and
then what would it look like
to start tokenizing things?
And so here you can change between the
different tokenizers if you want to see.
So we take this string.
You can also change the string
to whatever you want.
We'll hit play.
And so first of all it breaks
it up into the tokens.
And that's what Bert's
tokenization looks like.
Hello, we got the comma,
the world exclamation point.
Tokenization is the yadda yadda yadda.
You don't need me to read you
a sentence you can read, but
one by one in tokens, right?
We can do the same thing again
if we want to Change it to GPT2.
And you can see that GPT2 has
a slightly different way of
demarcating the division between things.
It's probably Just a special,
like ASCII character that
renders weird as it spits out.
The important part here, of course,
is that they are slightly different.
Right.
T5 does it.
Even the way that T5 broke
up the words is different.
Right.
And
let's just look at one more to
further drive the point home.
So Roberto just looks
a lot closer to GPTs.
Again, that is most likely
a special ASCII code that
happens to just render into
a G with a XM arc on top.
And you can change it out.
You try different things.
You can experiment, you can.
Like if we go back to one that
looked a little bit better for us.
All right, so those count as full words
because they're probably common enough.
Tokenization in the real world,
when you're not talking about AI models,
probably doesn't come up nearly as much
as swimming does in the body of work.
The vocabulary is effectively a set
of those suffixes and core words.
But some common enough words are going
to come up as we go through.
You can try out different ones if
you're curious of how they end up.
Anyone else want to try one for funsies?
You look like you have one
on the top of your head.
>> Speaker 3: I have a question.
>> Steve Kinney: All right, let's do it.
Let's switch to a question.
What do you got?
>> Speaker 3: I'm curious, is there a case
where you'd ever go between tokenized
format to a different tokenized format?
Or is best practice always
go from text to token?
>> Steve Kinney: I mean, most of the time
on the way into a model, as you notice,
these tokenizers look like model names.
Right?
Right.
And so they are.
Usually you cannot use tokens
from Bert with GPT, right.
So no.
Was there ever a reason?
I'm not gonna say there's never a reason,
but no, there's probably not a reason.
>> Speaker 2: What does it do with
something that's not in its vocabulary?
Like if you just put in a made up word or
just like ASDF or something.
>> Steve Kinney: So this one will
probably still get the whole word.
I wonder when we get to the decoding part,
if we actually get a value for
it, if we end up with some.
That's interesting.
>> Speaker 4: That is interesting.
>> Steve Kinney: That's fascinating.
There's certain things that you never
think about until you're teaching and
somebody asks you a question like that.
I'm like, I don't know.
That's a.
Now what I want to do is stop teaching for
the day and
now go play around with
a bunch of decoders.
I'm not going to do that right now.
But I'm probably going to do that tonight.
That's going to live rent free in my head.
Yeah, go.
>> Speaker 3: The higher token count
typically mean it's a better model.
>> Steve Kinney: Sure.
You know, it's like one of those things
where it's like does it being bigger and
more parameters make it a better model?
Usually.
But like not always.
Right.
Like it is a not wrong heuristic
that I'm sure there are tons of
counter examples for.
You know what I mean?
So like possibly.
But keep in mind then the bigger
the model, the harder it is to fine tune.
You know what I mean?
Yes.
Ish.
The problem with computer
science is that nothing is easy,
everything is hard and
most rules have an exception.
That's really annoying.
And then from tokens to IDs.
So here we've got one from earlier.
I'm actually going to.
I'll probably try to remember
to change this later.
If I do param and I do type string.
I know, I know, I'm getting there.
I can change it here really easily.
Could it have been just as
easy changing the code?
Absolutely, but here we are,
we can run this through where we
can see it turn into those numbers.
Which now raises the question of
what happens with my garbage word.
I need to like break this into like other
like I need to like have all these things
in one thing so I could see
the transformation all the way through.
Because those are probably those like
weird pieces that we saw earlier.
I don't know.
This is gonna live run free in my head.
I don't have an answer for you.
But I will unfortunately to
everyone in my family's chagrin,
probably have one shortly
because that's gonna.
Yeah, I'm gonna be thinking
about that while I talk now.
Yeah.
And so but to for the core point before
because as you can see I'm still
spending cycles on this now is
obviously we split apart the words,
we turn them into numbers.
Ideally the final step is to turn
those numbers back into words, right.
Actually hold on.
So I think I have the way I did
this because they're all in memory.
So I've got the token IDs.
Those I think in memory
are still is garbage.
And so then what happens?
It did manage to put it back.
I guess like at a certain point
the letters are in there is like my guess
is at a certain point.
>> Speaker 3: And certain pairs of letters
get put together as a single token for
whatever.
>> Steve Kinney: Reason that would be.
My guess is that like at some level
individual letters are tokens.
There's enough of the common character
yeah, let's go back up and look.
Yeah, because in this case,
like just L and
the idea that it had stuff before,
it just.
Yeah, these have probably got broken
up into tokens in those vocabs.
I probably can't do much with this.
They're probably all like related
to almost nothing in that sequence.
But I think at a certain point there
are small enough granular pieces in there
because if you think about all of the.
Obviously initial letters only get you to
like 26 and probably enough of the common
combinations because a lot of times
it did fall back to a single letter.
Like of the 50,000 probably
don't take up that much space.
Right.
So we all learned
something together today.
And that's why having these
notebooks is super cool though.
The idea that you can just like.
I don't know, let's like run the code and
see is super fun with these colab
jupyter notebooks as we go through.
Cool.
So let's see.
Let's turn this back.
Just my own.
Just so I don't like.
I don't remember exactly if that will bite
me by having garbage words in there at
some point.
So yeah,
here we can say we've got that again.
That's the beginning.
That is the separator in this case,
if I remember correctly.
Hello world.
I think it will just be
around the actual again.
Yeah, it does.
Like the separation is just for
that given thing.
What you think about is like the prompts
in a chatgpt are then separated by like,
this is one thing.
And then you know, again,
in the chatbot ones,
they are trained with special tokens
to delineate what role it was.
But it kind of shows the start and
end of a given thing which when we do
the fine tuning, we'll see roughly when
a quote should start and end and stuff
along those lines and the format of it.
Look, apparently previous me took notes.
If truly.
If you truly found a way to put something
in there that it does not know at all,
you will get a special token for
an unknown vocab word.
Cool.
And
we saw like that might happen sometime
later because like with these,
these are when we try to match two of
them is where we put the padding in.
Right.
So it'd be interesting to see.
I got it.
Like,
I'm pretty sure you can visualize it.
I just have to get creative later and
see if I can come up with
a way to visualize it.
>> Speaker 4: So I just went to look
up like how many words are in English
language and the entry from like
Merriam Webster says, it's like,
it's hard to estimate, but
it's like could be roughly a million.
Right.
And these tokens are like 50,000 of them.
>> Steve Kinney: Yeah.
So it'd be curious, I don't know
if we know the token counts of
like Claude Opus or whatever like
these are if someone wants to like
live research the Release date of GPT2,
you know what I mean?
Which was none of us were like AIs
changing everything with GPT2,
you know what I mean?
These are also several hundred megabyte
models versus like I think we saw
like hugging face or whatever.
Like some of them are like I have models
on my computer that are 46 gigabytes
like my suspicion is a 46-gigabyte model
most likely has a larger vocabulary and
those are open source.
We could probably figure it out.
I just probably nobody wants to watch me
download a 46 gigabyte model right now.
That said, well, not on the plane, but at
some point that'd be interesting to kind
of see because there
are large open-source models.
Just because we can't see Claude opus or
Gemini 2.5 Pro does not mean we can't
pull down like meta's libraries.
Their models are open source, right?
So you can grab like llama like 3,
the 105 billion parameter 1.
And I'm curious to see
what its vocab size.
I mean I can't run that on
my laptop unfortunately, but
I'd be curious to see what,
what its vocab size is.
>> Speaker 4: Have you
played with Deep Seek like.
>> Steve Kinney: Like on a consumer level.
Do you know what I mean?
Have I like downloaded deepseek and
like spun it up and talked to it?
Yes.
Right.
I haven't like gone down into
the weeds with it.
Like I've done the I chat to it.
It reasons,
it gives me answers level of it.
But like not on a, like let's pull
it down and like pull it apart.
Right but like some of the larger
open-source ones are somewhat interesting
to do that with, right.
Where you can just like yeah, you can
pull down this 20-gigabyte model and
you can like one load.
There are some apps like LM Studio or
whatever where they pull down from
hugging face and they'll pull down and
they'll give you like
a desktop app that looks like.
It's your average electron app and
like load them up and
you can tweak a lot of the parameters.
Like how many like CPU cores do
you want to let it use what,
what is the temperature and top K and
top P, which we'll see in a second.
And you can chat with them.
And it'll put the chat interface and
it'll actually put a OpenAI compliant
API layer on top of them too.
So you can actually take
any of these larger 20, 40,
60 gig models, depending on again,
the size of the RAM and or
GPU will be the limiting factor,
not the space on your computer.
A model that is maybe 8 gigabytes is still
going to take up like 32 gigs of RAM or
something like that,
depending on how you tune it, but
those would be interesting
to pull apart as well.